I see at least two issues that need
addressing first the term invert this is
really interesting
the term inverse meritocracy implies a
level of organization that I don't
really believe exists in other words
what I've seen from vegan activism
online is simply a reflection of
cultural and even political practices
outside of it
celebrity worshipping in lieu of
organization and institutionalism so I
disagree with you here this is what
makes it interesting in Canada who spoke
at the quote-unquote nation rising rally
in Ottawa Canada who spoke there and who
was excluded right I was in Canada for
this event for an issue as I was
emailing them more than a year before
the event happened I was talking about
them and trying to talk with them it
turned out to them and mod vegan talk to
them on my behalf she was to some extent
an insider and knew those people okay I
was excluded
I was silenced and if I had participated
and if they had heard my constructive
criticism everything about that
everything about that event both in the
lead-up and the press coverage
afterwards animal die could have could
have been way more positive more affect
they didn't want to hear it they saluted
me from the one who was there James
asked me
it's the same dude okay that is formally
overtly organized so no it's not just
people in bikinis on the internet there
are formal explicit political
organizations with funding from donors
making these decisions and they are
making the decision no aisel lizard
doesn't get to talk doesn't even get to
attend doesn't even get to participate
in a silent vigil and James ass fee he's
the guy on stage speaking they literally
give him a platform and one of the
organizers he was at first really
offended when I reached out to him and
shared my my criticism of what had
happened with nation wiesen and you know
what he took the time to watch the
videos and his it met limit messages to
me they got less and less angry and then
the last couple of messages have before
actually warm and appreciate him and he
said well you know what I think you're
doing something really important here in
our firm this kind of critique he saw a
lot of value in a book the constructive
criticism o saying but what went wrong
with Haitian rising I understand why
you'd say this at a glance you might
think oh no there is no organization
there is no institutionalization it's
just a bunch of Fame [ __ ] on YouTube
trying to get clicks and views and
trying to make my Instagram you know
there is there is formal political
organization just like direct action
everywhere and there's a bank account
and there's money involved and there's a
hierarchy people are unequal there are
some people who make decisions and who
put that money in their pocket and live
off that Twitter money including direct
action everywhere showed us tweets young
and there are other people who do not
and you can't scrutinize those people
there are real relationships of
authority there are real institutional
Harry's this and guess what if you sign
up and join a synagogue synagogues are
not grassroots organizations either had
a pretty big response within just 10 or
11 hours to the last video I put up it's
not the first video on my channel titled
stupidity is real and it's not the first
video on my channel to offer criticism
of figures like Paul Bashir
James ass B I think it is the first
criticism of moon and rock
hadn't even heard of before they quit
because I wasn't even aware of their
channel although in some ways there
they're similar to and represent common
themes that have come up again and again
in the movement now obviously many of
the negative reactions were at a kind of
shallow surface level to that video but
I did also get some deeper comments and
criticism so part of it was people
feeling that Melissa didn't get a chance
to talk Melissa's with me here off
camera yeah it's true Melissa didn't get
a chance to talk or just chatting about
that it's true and you know I think you
guys may overlook the extent to which
that was a spontaneous video made as we
said at the beginning with a disclaimer
with about three hours of sleep
we just gotten off the airplane and the
train and arrived here in France
that's France in the background at the
window by the way um it is true you know
melissa has her own YouTube channel
melissa makes her own videos and there
are some videos where we sit down on an
equal footing to give a response to for
example the book review videos we did
together when we did the book review
video on American Universities and
what's wrong with them a few different
book reviews few different discussions
we've had but we both start off on an
equal footing then Melissa gets closer
to equal time on the video in that case
I sat down with a pretty simple thesis
which was to talk about stupidity as
being a real factor and I mean you were
just asked me with this it's kind of
stupidity as something different from
morality or ideology it's apart from
being right or wrong or a specific
practical tactical choice made by these
people that said look stupidity is a
real factor here people overlook it and
it's also as an impact on people like me
in my decision to quit the movement in
my current situation
so I started recording with really that
thesis in mind and it is true I was not
really interested in Melissa kind of
speaking the conversation don't nuther
roads and you know right at the start of
the video this is one of the reasons
what people have reacted so negative is
appeal other reasons or stated within
the video people don't want to hear what
I have to say and I understand that like
I really understand how much more
popular this channel would be if I come
up from day one saying
Wow you know what freelee and
durianrider are doing is just great
and if today I was saying wow you know
what James ASPI has been doing is just
great and lots of love and support to
him and the whole crew and I was so
excited to see him on the new the new
channel called do boo from Sean Lee and
I remember Sean Lee from back when he
supported Tory writer and freely and
that's also great like if I was doing
the cheerleading at every stage
consistently and if I was doing the
cheerleading now you know obviously some
of the cheerleading would be sincere I
mentioned in that video also the people
the activists I do support and I do
respect and admire you know I have
respect for what PCRM has done and what
Neil Barnard has done a lot of people
pointed out in the comments section in
response to the complaint like oh you
regard all other vegan activist
negatively well lucky you well okay
another big example one of the longest
playlists on this channel is the
criticism of DX e so DX e is the
initialization of direct action
everywhere
imagine how differently this whole
channel will be perceived my whole
career will be different if I just comfy
well you know here's the latest project
from DX e and that's great and I'm so
happy they're doing this we could have
done the whole channel that way from
start to finish and it could have been a
natural vegan is great and vegan cheetah
is great and happy healthy vegan is
great I could have just been giving out
completely false positive indications on
all the other YouTube channels and
actual organization institutions the
movement and you can ask yourself as a
thought exercise how much larger and
more positive the response from the
audience would be but I came into this I
keep making the comparison to Buddhism
and some of you guys may not know what
Buddhism has met in my life I am NOT a
Buddhist because I don't want to live a
lie Hey look shout out to Mexi and Marni
privileged vegan and their podcast is
called the vegan vanguard they have a
much bigger audience as pinkies now if
you don't know what tankey means it is a
word for a communist apologist or
communist supporter do you guys have any
doubt in your mind that I would have a
bigger audience and more money coming in
and more support if I just came out
Hyrum was a stereotypical Pro left-wing
tanky I think the size of their
audiences
a good indication which is it's not
enormous they're not like PewDiePie or
something they're not pulling in
millions there's a big big audience of
people who don't want their opinions
challenged and just want positive just
want to hear reiterated and repeated
what they already know and already agree
with on the far left wing and I don't do
that either
I mean I'm if you consider Bernie
Sanders left-wing I don't really think
of Bernie Sanders as left-wing you know
I'm definitely left-of-center in terms
of current American political discourse
there's no way I could get the
Republican Party but you know you know
I'm not a stereotypical leftist and I
have a lot of criticism directed
left-wing also so look you know what the
truth is I just said this in some email
to some people and some facebook
conversations I actually see is really
positive the people got offended by my
last video because in my last video
stupidity is real I was saying things
that I've said five times before to be
reasonable not a hundred times what
they've said it five times before I've
criticized James asked you before I've
criticized Gary Yourofsky before and
it's really positive if you can present
that message and then the fifth time
people are still finding it fresh and
provocative and offensive rather than it
responding to it with indifference it's
surprising to me because I've said all
that stuff before and you know a lot of
the questions reflect the fact that
people are coming to my channel for the
first time so this legit just comes up
in the email good answer people were
asking have you done cube of truth have
you done slaughterers vigils so talking
about slaughterhouse vigils that's like
four years ago on this channel there's a
really good video my opinion is still
really good called the agony of activism
and that was the first like in-depth
discussion of what it's like sitting and
witnessing a pig being having its throat
slit and cows cows and chickens and
other animals being killed in front of
you what does that mean for the movement
was that me if you as an activist and
what does it mean there was my own story
getting rich and there was a whole
series of videos about my engagement
with the various vigils so cube of truth
and their competitor the Earthlings
experience sorry and there's another the
organization that started it all
for them these two young British women
in London their organization was called
London vegan actions they actually
invented that it wasn't all before
wearing the wearing the white mask and
doing selfish so all that's been covered
on this channel in my attempts to
volunteer with them and my experience
doing Street activism that's all been
covered so I understand people coming on
and so forth versus saying like oh well
when did you ever do this but it's like
yeah I've been there I've seen it all
I've done it all and I've had a thousand
videos on this channel talking about it
so obviously you can't expect your
audience to be there with you but like I
feel the sincerity of those responses
and all I can say is I'm happy you came
to my channel and saw that video and got
stimulated now if you start asking those
questions so got an email here from a
guy named Lamar by default I just answer
email and questions on patreon become
cool by their first name so shout it to
Lamar unless they tell me they want me
to use their full name or they want me
to show that their YouTube channel or
promote their Facebook or something that
all they don't use that name or give
that Lake and I just mentioned I have
slightly shortened his email and
actually this stuff I deleted were
statements agreeing with me I understand
why he did that to make the criticism
kind of less offensive he says look I
agree with you about X Y and Zed however
and I've normally deleted the first part
and I start with the however because for
the purpose of this video I don't want
to repeat him agreeing with me or him
reassuring me that he does see some
value in what I'm doing on the channel
this is chopped down a little bit so he
writes greetings eyes'll first time
correspondent here I write this because
you are one of the few figures that I'm
remotely interested in paying attention
to when it comes to veganism preach so I
I cut off Melissa on this you guys can
tell me once it's just off camera but
you know one of the few things I didn't
like in last videos Melissa started
saying oh well you know you get so many
fewer viewers and your videos are
actually substantive and these other
videos that's none I just didn't want I
didn't like the way that changed the
tone of the video I didn't want to make
it into a competition that comes up here
in lamar's this question but look I'm a
producer of content and I'm a consumer
and Lamar just saying this do you think
there's a lot of content for me to watch
on YouTube
there's shockingly little under any
heading there shock a little in veganism
resident listening to her hearing like
do you think we can sit around and watch
the Supreme banana do you think we can
sit around and watch our natural vegan
like if Melissa and I sit and watch
basically any vegan YouTube channel
other than my own we're just sitting
there heaping scorn on it or like
facepalm anger like spending the whole
time like oh my god this is so stupid
this is so out of touch and you guys
know our videos saying this that also
applies to the like self-styled
intellectuals the people with PhDs the
people with formal credentials I can't
like sit and enjoy you through the
latest lecture from Kerry Rob ski Gary
Yourofsky talking about pet ownership or
something I have some respect for those
people in the movement that's why my
criticisms of them are longer any more
death but no it's it's facepalm City
around here yeah mmm anyway so we agree
with this and I really feel it or he
says look you're one of the only people
in the vegan movement I have any
interest in paying attention to and he
continues quote while I would well I
would be disappointed if you quit
I'm not going to directly try to
convince you to not quit but I would
like to ask you to consider some
questions before you do quit consider
this in the same light as you do the
criticism on your own channel as you put
it quote the role of this channel within
veganism has been a challenge damn
question assumptions people with living
by so he then quotes me quote we live in
an era of inverse meritocracy the
stupidest people are promoted to
positions at the pinnacle of fame and
influence in the vegan movement and
that's one of the main reasons why I
want out I don't want to be a part of
that I don't want to compete at the
bottom of the pile close quote so here
is an interesting question one what are
you defining as merit by your use of the
term inverse meritocracy you imply that
you have more merit than people like
James asked me Paul Bashir Gary
Yourofsky earthling had and others who
criticized in your channel specifically
say how this is so according to my own
definition I would say that you do have
more merit like from his perspective but
I want to hear or read your definition
and not just you know statements about
kinda who is stupid and and who's not
right so look I don't see ile the merit
that it takes to advance the vegan
movement as
one thing as a single criterion that
there's only one right way to do it I
actually do think there's a lot of room
for diversity of approaches and methods
and tactics but there are different
things we can point to as you know
signalling that there is this kind of
under underlying merit I've asked people
for the whole five years have been on
this channel what are you planning to do
for the next five years where do you
think you're gonna be five years from
now where is the movement going where
are you going you know when you're in
your methods and you're approaching your
activism and I think every single time I
think a hundred percent of the time
people have not had an answer people if
some of them some of them have been
shocked some of them we've just been a
little surprised and we found it
interesting but I don't think I talked
to anyone who was like answer oh yeah
right well this is what we're doing in
the next five years and this is why I'm
doing this probably if I were interested
if I were interviewing restaurant owners
probably if I was interviewing people
who are just doing the business side of
veganism they'd have a five-year plan
and more of a clear clear-headed
approach that way but people including
really intelligent people I had a guy
who was a more like a human rights
lawyer they technically did law ecology
law so environmental rights law even he
was had no answer to that question and
he sent me an e-mail a few months ago
saying Wow now when I look back the fact
that you asked me that question and it's
almost five years ago you asked maybe it
only been three years but whatever what
are you doing next twelve years think
about the next five years and where
you're going in your activism where both
of us are gonna be from five years from
now and stuff he says wow I really look
back on that and I rue the day sort of
thing sure when you look at the extreme
short-term thinking and to be blunt
famewhoring of people like James ASPI of
even the way someone like petaa operates
in my opinion not everything petted us
is bad you put in exceptions here but a
lot of this stuff is just kind of
chasing headlines chasing short-term
Fame this kind of short this kind of
short-term thinking I do think that the
kind of merit we're talking about here
in terms of building the begin movement
it is going to be signaled by genuine
long-term thinking and planning with you
know positive aspirations you know some
kind of pause the best version to make
the world a better
places is gonna be at play there and I
think once you have that you're gonna
have positive cooperation with others
toward that goal and by the way I do
think it's legitimate that many people
with a five-year plan would exclude me
for legitimate reasons so I don't think
PCRM would be interested in working with
me
they're basically only interested in
working with other medical doctors and
scientific researchers probably they
have a small role for legal experts
legal analyst so that kind of thing they
ever really specialized type of lobbying
they're doing somebody else to give you
an example I do not know anyone doing
this this is an excellent form of a
vegan advocacy let's say you had a five
year plan to really take on the issue of
the rights of slaughterhouse workers to
do a labor union approach where you say
look the exploitation of people in the
slaughterhouses is terrible we're gonna
do this partly to shine a critical light
on the whole industry the questions of
you know slaughtering the animals also
but we're gonna really take the angles
and look at how many of these people
have PTSD and their lives are destroyed
they're horribly exploited in some way
taking that approach they might only be
interested in other people of a
background in labor labor disputes labor
law you know this this kind of struggle
unionization and factory workers rights
that kind of thing so I don't know
anyone doing that but that's obviously a
very rich approach I've said many times
this channel there's an opportunity to
have an approach that's just based on
leather and leather advocacy and I'm
interested now even what about an
approach that's based on children's
entertainment on storybooks and cartoons
and fables so there are different
specific modes and tactics but once
you've got that once you've got a
positive aspiration on a five-year plan
or five years set of hopes at least then
you're gonna you're gonna have other
merits that are attached to that that
reflect the sincerity of your engagement
your openness to working with other
people who can support you and whom you
can support so look it's a great
question you know what is merit in the
roofer in this reverse meritocracy I'm
talking about
so at to give a very broad and inclusive
answer trying to achieve something
positive in the movement in a five year
time span not a 1,000 year time span not
like you put some super broad thing you
know I think that's one reasonable
criterion
to bring to bear here and yeah I do
think with a lot of comments that were
offended am I talking about people being
drug addicts I think that's a
significant factor here I think the fact
that people are just coping with
recovery from drug addiction and sharing
that story I think that is part of the
short-term thinking here I mean it's one
factor among many apart from just
famewhoring apart from just trying to
make money out of vacation videos of
going on vacation and then making a
social media product out of the
videotape of you swimming on the beach
and a tropical island James asked me
does this heavily and he's not the only
one I mean there are a lot of other
factors here that as I say are are the
opposite of merit in this in this
situation so yeah what when you're
asking about merit look it's very easy
for me to imagine a positive version of
pretty much every institution and
organization I criticize like so Melissa
you participated in a bunch of the
videos criticizing direct action
everywhere DXE if I put it to you as a
thought experiment
what would a parallel universe look like
in which we both supported DXE how
different with that organization have to
be the honest answer is it's not that
different
the changes are fundamental the
difference is our fundamental and that's
why they're not going to happen that's
why it's worth criticizing but it's not
it's not that different
pedda people's the Ethical Treatment
manimals all vegans hate peda we all we
all love to hate on petaa but if you ask
yourself as a thought experiment what
how different would peda be for you to
approve it you can make a checklist it's
attainable it's not that it's not that
hard or even for me to be a member of
peda I don't think they'd have me but
you know if I could join Pettit and
again one like my clash with Joey carb
strong over cube of truth I said to him
straight up repeating it directly to him
and in the videos look the criticisms I
have of Cuba truth you could change this
stuff within the next two months these
are practical changes you can make this
is attainable change so it's not that
it's not that big a gap even for the
group's I've criticized most harshly and
at the most life okay so we continue
with this email from Lamar I see at
least two issues that need addressing
first the term invert this is really
interesting
the term inverse meritocracy implies a
level of organization that I don't
really believe exists
okay in other words what I've seen from
vegan activism online is simply a
reflection of cultural and even
political practices outside of it
celebrity worshipping in lieu of
organization and institutionalism so I
disagree with you here this is what
makes it interesting in Canada who spoke
at the quote-unquote nation rising rally
in Ottawa Canada who spoke there and who
was excluded right I was in Canada for
this event for an issue as I was
emailing them more than a year before
the event happened I was talking about
them and trying to talk with them turns
out to them and mod vegan talk to them
on my behalf
she was to some extent an insider and
knew those people okay I was excluded
I was silenced and if I had participated
and if they had heard my constructive
criticism everything about that
everything about that event both in the
lead-up and the press coverage
afterwards and what actually could have
been way more positive and more
effective they didn't want to hear it
they saluted me from doing who was there
James asked me it's the same dude okay
that is formally overtly organized so no
it's not just people in bikinis on the
internet there are formal explicit
political organizations with funding
from donors making these decisions and
they are making the decision no aisel
lizard doesn't get to talk doesn't even
get to attend doesn't even get to
participate in a silent vigil and James
ASPI he's the guy on stage speaking they
literally give him a platform and they
ask for donations and they keep that
money and they spend that money and they
get endorsements in the court in the
case of nation rising they get
endorsements from other agencies in
their case they got backing from the pig
slaughter group that paid the vigil
movement
what if they call it the silent vigils
at Pig slaughterhouses and counselors
they reached out to and cart doors from
all these different agencies and their
event was a flop it was a failure and
one of the organizers he was at first
really offended when I reached out to
him and shared my my criticism of what
had happened with nation wiesen and you
know what he took the time you watch the
videos and his it met limit messages to
me they got less and less angry and then
the last couple message said but we're
actually warm and appreciative and he
said well you know what I think you're
doing something really important here in
orphan this kind of critique he saw a
lot of value in above the constructive
criticism I was saying but what went
wrong with nation rising and there was
also a tendency in his first response he
was a part of to just lie and pretend it
was a success to just lie and say oh no
thousands of people attended it was a
huge that no wasn't it was a failure and
I would also say specifically James
aspies involvement with it was a failure
so this is what's interesting to me is
no I understand why you'd say this at a
glance you might think oh no there is no
organization there is no
institutionalization it's just a bunch
of Fame Horrors on YouTube trying to get
clicks and views and trying to make my
Instagram know there is there is formal
political organization just like direct
action everywhere and there's a bank
account and there's money involved and
there's a hierarchy people are unequal
there are some people who make decisions
and who put that money in their pocket
and live off that Twitter money
including direct action everywhere
showed us tweets young and there are
other people who do not and you can't
scrutinize those people there are real
relationships of authority there are
real institutional hierarchies of this
and guess what if you sign up and join a
synagogue synagogues are not grassroots
decentralized organizations either
they're also formally institutionalized
organized center okay don't worry this
isn't too much longer but to me this is
an interesting and again it is a
critique he is criticizing me and
challenging me but that challenge is
appreciated so he says the focus is less
on institution building than it is on
online slacktivism
that allows most people to give money to
selectively it's too big allows the
people to give money to celebrity
activists that can then do the activism
for them right so that is one factor but
I would say there's
more money in institutionalizing and
that's why people do it and that's why
our thing had did it earthling had
graduated from slacktivism to
institution building mmm look at someone
like Hania mania she would have been
better off if she had but sure this this
comment it applies to many scenarios but
not all obviously a lot of this
criticism I just agree with or it's you
know it's not true 100% of the time but
it's true a large enough time sure
second how can quitting veganism be
reconciled quitting the vegan movement
of course I'm going to keep eating a
vegan diet what do you think you start
eating organ meat it's okay anyway how
can quit the movement be reconciled with
the foundation of your conception of
veganism one that has an intense desire
for community the way you speak of the
connection between your veganism and a
sense of community even possesses moral
connotations in your video on
communities title the video you say
quote I have no reason to pretend that
veganism is completely satisfactory to
me if it is just a diet or it's
something I do in private and that can't
have any political ramifications close
quote
how would your quitting fundamentally
change your veganism this would be a
very useful tub for a video by the way
if you still want the sense of community
that you discussed your manifesto what
exactly are you saying if you stop
engaging with the activities that
facilitated right so look this is a
criticism basically all I can do is
agree and say it's really sad I'm just
gonna contrast this to a different
criticism I received several people
wrote in and telling me you would never
be satisfied with anything nothing is
good enough for you like you're quitting
the movement but no movement could have
satisfied you I completely disagree with
that so III do largely agree with what
he's this guy is saying here with the
criticism from Sarah my forgetting his
name the criticism from Lamar but if I
had five people I could cooperate with
I'd be happy when I had the money to
host a conference in Vancouver Canada
and then coolers a huge city for
veganism Avena activism if I had ten
people saying yes I want to join in I
want to deliver a paper I want to make
I want to help I wanted positive I'm
happy that is not after whatever was
that point four years in the movement
that is not too much to ask you've been
through what I've been through in this
movement and you come back to candidates
say hey I want to organize like a small
academic style conference this is not a
huge this is not a street protest this
is not something for thousands of people
to attend it's time for a few dozen
people to attend say hey I want to
organize people and I wanted to test to
deliver papers the topic of the
conference was actually pragmatism what
really does practice doesn't mean and
challenging some of the voices who think
pragmatism means reduce at arianism and
saying kind of reclaiming fighting for
intellectually and politically and
ultimately organizationally the concept
of a vegan pragmatism a principled
pragmatism and what what that now means
and to some extent what the research and
hard facts it I didn't have one person
not one and this includes all the people
with PhDs and a lot of reasons that not
one person so it's not the case that
nothing would have satisfied me all
right unattainable goals if I had five
people if I had ten people great and
again I could say the same about
Buddhism if I need ten scholars and
Buddhism who were that M doesn't have to
be scholars but I knew ten people doing
humanitarian work I cared a lot about
humanitarian work in my life if I knew
ten people doing real sincere work I'd
still be a Buddhist today and I'd still
be those ten people would be my best
friends now for ten years or whatever
you know what I mean they we all would
have done together what I said and that
movement was I don't want to be a
one-man religion so I had to quit
Buddhism I don't want to be a one-man
political protest I don't want to be a
one-man organization so to answer this
directly Lamar asks what would it mean
if you stopped engaging in facilities
you pardon me would mean if you stopped
engaging in activities that would
facilitate the community it means I
accept that I'm totally alone
and I'm walking away alone and with
nothing as I even said in the earlier
video
so that's sad but I mean every other
trip we made to Europe inclusive the
last one six months ago I brought sure
we made everywhere we went to Los
Angeles and everything I was really
putting out as many emails and
it's on YouTube and everything I could
say hey hey hey we're going to Los
Angeles
what can we participate in like what
even what protests gonna show up look
what street protest or what activism or
what outreach what are their vegan
activists can I meet who can I cooperate
with whether it's making a YouTube video
or something more positive or meaningful
is that everywhere in the world and
obviously including places like Seattle
and Vancouver Bangkok Chiang Mai Paris
you know it's been a long strange list
of places abroad for any of you and guys
nothing positive came back and now it's
over
hoe people closed the door against me so
many times and after a certain point you
say ok the door is closed moving on
ok from what I've seen continues why not
establish your own institution with much
better organization superior values and
effective methods this is it this is
where I assume you will say quote no one
is going to cooperate with me I would
argue that this needs to be fleshed out
more who did you see cooperation with
and why so look one of the reasons I
don't talk about that more specifically
it's just privacy so he suggests in his
full email that I should make more
videos talking with that well there's
already a lot of complaining on this
channel and for me to come out and be
like look you know mod vegan is a piece
of [ __ ] I tried to get something
organized with mod vegan for so long and
this is a response and she let me down
and now I can't work with it like you
really think this channel would be
better this was coming out and naming
and shaming all the people I've tried to
cooperate with or even I mean in some
cases just emails that never got
answered once so I just talked about the
group nation rising who froze me on
exclusion I did also make videos talking
with a cube of truth people aka
anonymous for the voiceless who actively
scorned me excluded me didn't even let
me participate in a silent protest and
they do allow people as offensive as
vegan gains and Isaac from ask yourself
those guys you know or reached out to or
included to some extent Paul Bashir was
willing to hear criticism from those
guys and not me well we all know why
you know from there's good reason I
utterly despise their reasons but I know
understand the reasons why they exclude
I know why they were afraid I know what
they were afraid of you know so you know
some of that stuff has been talked about
the channel but no you're not gonna get
more content talking about my
disappointment with particular activists
or particular people that would be a
kind of a naming and shaming thing but
yeah at this point I can say I reached
out to everybody obviously especially in
Canada um there's no point in my
reaching out to someone in the United
Kingdom you know an England that I can't
participate with but even that having
been said I'm now remembering all the
examples of people in English English
one couple in Scotland where there was
at least the possibility of cooperation
over Skype you know and through YouTube
on that level but terms of really
getting organized obviously it's got to
be Canada or parts the United States
that are adjacent to Canada like Seattle
and we went to Los Angeles Dylan's so no
I understand anyway he says he doesn't
know whoever reached out to it's true
but you know it's both it's who I've
reached out to when it's who's reached
out to me and he went on to say buddy
I'll skip this part
he says it's quite correct he says look
you know you really tried hard even to
have a working relationship with vegan
cheetah you're damn right I worked
really hard to have worship with vegan
cheetah with Enya of Enya mania with
Jason Posey know with all kinds of
people who were really at the shallow
lifestyle activism bikinis bikinis and
permanent vacation styling because I did
I made tons of positive effort with
people you know where I find fault and
what they're doing on YouTube fourth
what they're doing the time and again it
comes back to the same thing with my
critique of cube of truth and direct
action everywhere it wouldn't be that
hard for these people to reform what
they're doing for these institutions due
to what they're doing alright so again I
still think this is interesting this is
his point to as he numbered at point two
to quote also what do you mean when you
say you are competing at the bottom of
the pile who are you competing with what
are you competing for and just to
summarize he goes on to say that he
doesn't believe we should be competing
for fame and
once he doesn't believe we should be
competing competing for the number of
viewers so this is also why I didn't
like Melissa's brief comment in my
former video where she was caught I
totally sympathize why she said it and I
know it's sincere and I'm basically in
favor of anyone saying sincere crap on
YouTube where Melissa was saying like oh
well you know it doesn't make sense that
these videos that are just about nothing
have so many more views than videos on
your channel as old that are substantive
I feel Melissa's sincerity and this line
we both live with however the other side
of that is of course of course
fluff at nonsense has more viewers how
many viewers can you possibly get for a
video talking about philosophy of
Aristotle how many viewers can you
possibly get a really good example for a
book review about Gary France aione and
his philosophy of animal rights and
critique of animal rights your really
substantive content that's really
important to veganism in the movement
but for me I completely understand why I
mean like a girl jumping up and down in
a bikini after drinking a fruit smoothie
gets more reviews than that like I'm not
in a position to complain if you think
of this in terms of competing for
audience size like you kind of have to
accept going into this the numbers are
always going to be on the side of
garbage of absolute garbage and in a
sense that's okay so but I'm gonna
answer directly this question what are
you competing for and what are you
competing with I'm competing for those
five people I'm competing for those 10
people I'm competing for a small
audience of support of people who could
actually work with me to build
institution abilities to movement and to
scale it up a little bit I would say I'm
competing for maybe 2,000 people who
would support my publishing a children's
storybook
maybe it's 2,000 maybe it's 5,000 so
again not big numbers not the 9.2
million people who watched the Nina
Aranda video to lick my body challenge I
don't think those are 9.2 million people
who are supporting veganism but sure
whether it's two thousand people or five
thousand people would support me
publishing a children's storybook if we
had done that academic conference
academic style conference on veganism
and veganism and pragmatism
how many people would have needed to
support a hundred two hundred so yeah
there still is something I'm competing
for although you're correct to use his
terms I am not competing for a meteoric
rise to fame and influence all right so
it goes on to say from my quote from my
perspective you quitting deprives
veganism and an opportunity to most
effectively institution build and he
again says that he wants me to get
specific about what kind of cooperation
I've been seeking and who has been
refusing to cooperate with me this video
is that specific as it's going to get
Lamar but I have been very open-minded I
mean keep in mind this channel has
included the possibility of people
cooperating with me in in vegan baking
it would covered a huge range it's not
just street activism it's not just
lobbying city hall there's been a huge
range of possible forms of cooperation
okay he closes by saying at some length
that he really doesn't want me to quit
and asked what quitting will mean stay
tuned you're gonna see how the channel
will change and he says I think he would
be making a mistake even in your own
terms by quitting fina activism well I'm
a 40 year old man with a five-year-old
daughter I have other commitments in
life and in many ways I had already quit
at the time durianrider created this
controversy that forced me into the
courtroom and forced me to double down
my efforts on YouTube just to clear my
own name if that hadn't happened with
durianrider it's really possible to quit
much sooner because I was in a full-time
language program in China
struggling to learn Chinese and doing
other things these five years have been
a remarkable opportunity in my life and
in some ways a remarkable period of time
for the vegan movement because I was in
university in Canada and then I was in
an education program in China and I was
I was doing other things but no not only
do I feel that quitting is the right
thing for me at this point I feel I
really have
really have no alternative even if
YouTube is now to become not a smaller
button even bigger part of my life if
you guys check out the front page of my
patreon link in the description you're
gonna see there are no promises
about vegan activism I'm not doing any
of the dishonest manipulative things
that other vegan youtubers do I'm not
saying if you donate $10 I will convert
to new people to veganism if you've
watched this channel a long time I used
to criticize other vegans who have this
kind of thing I'm not saying if you pay
me enough money I'll go out and write
chalk on the sidewalk chalk divisa m--
Schokolade there's another channel who
did that if you pay me money I'll go do
this there is there is no lie of that
kind there's a straight-up statement
that look I'm someone with a background
in political philosophy political
science Asian Studies Asian languages
and I'm coming on YouTube to share what
it is I've got to give and at some point
after 1000 videos what I've got to share
what I've got to give no longer is
complaining about the hopelessness of
the vegan movement its internalizing
that hopelessness learning the lesson
and moving on
[Music]